PREFACE.

taking such pride in their own discoveries.
All this is said with reference to the time
during which I attended on them. For one
of them afterwards went to Bologna, and
there unleamt what he had taught: on his
return als0, he untaught it: whether the
change was for the better or the worse, I
leave to the judgment of those who heard him
before and after. The other of the two was
also a proficient in the more exalted Phi-

losophy of Divinity, wherein he obtained a

distinguished name. With these teachersI
remained two years, and got so versed in

comnmrrffihffimles and elements in general,

which boys study, and in which my teachers

were most weighty, that I seemed to myself
to know thern as well as Ι knew my own nails

and fingers. There was one thing which Ι
had certainly attained to, namely, to estimate
my own knowledge much higher than it de-
served. l fancied myselfa sciolist, because
I was ready in what I had been taught. I
then, beginning to reflect and to measure my
strength, attended on the Grammarian William
de Conches, during the space of three years3
and read much at intervals: nor shall lever
regret the way in which my time was then

 

